Ref: https://youtu.be/tNWj5uGIqok?si=JaI6Z9FoAYRYDkTl
Network Security
	"War starts with cyber before it moves to air or land" -Jeetu Patel

A. Security Goals
	-Confidentiality
	-Integrity
	-Availability

	Confidentiality
		-Security Appliances
			Firewall
				Software/Host-Based Firewall
				Packet Filtering Firewall 
				Stateful Firewall
				Next Generation Firewall
				
				Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) - an area that is separated by a firewall in order to prevent more than one device from being compromised in an event of being attacked.
				
				Intrusion Detection System (IDS) Sensor - monitors traffic that flows through the network to alert against malicious traffic.
					//monitors traffic and REACT to potential malicious traffic.
					
					[Host] - [SW1] - [SW2] - [R1] - [Firewall] - (INTERNET)
								|
							 [IDS]
					
				Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) Sensor - Similar to IDS but instead of allowing and merely copying an instance of the traffic that comes through the network, it instead monitors the traffic first before it can go through the network in order to PREVENT malicious attacks.
					//monitors traffic and PREVENTS potential malicious traffic.
					[Host] - [SW1] - [SW2] - [R1] - [IPS] - [Firewall] - (INTERNET)
					
					-Compares traffic to a signature database
					-Can be an appliance or host-based
				
		-Access Control Lists (ACLs)
			Can permit and deny traffic
			Can be applied inbound or outbound
			Can be used to match traffic
			Processed top-down
			Implicit deny any statement at the bottom
			Numbered or Named
			Standard or Extended
			
		-Encryption
			Symmetric - a shared key between devices
				Data Encryption Standard (DES) - 56bit key length
				3DES
				Advanced Encryption Standard(AES)
				
				Issues - doesn't scale very well
			
			Asymmetric - different key, a public key pair
				RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman)
				
				//Uses a Public and Private Key
				//Anything encrypted with the public key can only be dcrypted by the private key
				
		
			Encryption Interaction Process
				1. Client wants a secure connection
				2. Server sends digital certificate
				3. Client authenticates the certificate with the CA's public key
				4. Client generates a string and encrypts it with amazon.com's public key
				5. Client sends encrypted string to amazon.com
				6. Amazon.com decrypts the string with its private key.
		
	Integrity
		Hashing Algorithms	//fingerprint
			Message-Digest Algorithm(MD5) -128bit hash digest
			Secure Hash Algorithm(SHA-1) -
						
			Hash Based Message Authentication Code(HMAC) //prevent malicious interception and rehashing of file exchange.
				
	Availability
		The five nines
		99.999 Percent Uptime
		5 minutes of downtime per year.

B. Common Network Attacks and Defenses
	Denial of Service(DoS) and Distributed Denial of Service(DDoS)
		DoS - an attack where a targeted system is overwhelmed with a large volume of requests, causing it to consume its resources to the point where it can't perform its intended function.
		DDoS
			Command and Control Server - Botnet of infected devices 
		
		DoS & DDoS defenses
			-Cisco Router's TCP intercept feature
				Cisco Router Intercept Mode: Router responds to SYN messages on behalf of the internal server
				Cisco Router Watch Mode: Router monitors SYN messages sent to an interval server and resets the TCP connection if it takes too long to establish.
				
			-IPS Sensor 
			-Detection Algorithms
				Cisco Talos
				
				*Zero-Day Attack Detection
					New DoS and DDoS attacks might be harder to detect
					Zero-day threats can be detected through behavioral-based and machine learning algorithms
				
			-Overprovision Bandwidth
			-Have an Incident Response(IR) Plan
				Defines what constitute an 'incident', and prescribes a detailed list of steps to be taken.
			
			-Proactively Perform Penetration Tests
					An authorized attack on a system
		
		On-Path (a.k.a. Man-in-the-Middle) Attack
			An attack where a malicious user somehow injects themselves inside a communication flow between two systems, enabling them to intercept or manipulate that flow's traffic.
		
			MAC-Flooding - Attacker floods switch with so many fake MAC addresses.
				**
				SW1
				config t
				 int gi 0/1
				  switchport mode access
				  switchport port-security
				  switchport port-security maximum 4
				  switchport port-security mac-address xxxx.xxxx.xxxx
				  switchport port-security sticky
				  switchport port-security violation restrict
				  sh port-security
				  exit
				 
				 ip dhcp snooping
				 ip dhcp snooping vlan 1
				 int gi 0/1
				  ip dhcp snooping trust
				  exit
				 sh ip dhcp snooping
				 
				 ip arp inspection vlan 1
				 int gi 0/1
				  ip arp inspection trust
				  end
				 **
	  
			ARP Poisoning - Unsolicited ARP replies are sent to the victim, claiming the attacker's MAC address is the MAC address of the victim's default gateway
			Rogue DHCP - the attacker's DHCP server tells the victim that the IP address of the default gateway is the attacker's IP address.
			 
			Other attacks
				VLAN Hopping Attack
					Switch Spoofing - attacker pretends to be an ethernet switch and sets up a trunk carrying traffic for all VLANs
			
				Social Engineering Attacks
					Phishing - When an attacker leverages e-mail, webpages, etc, that appear legitimate in an attempt to obtain confidential information.
					Tailgating 
					Shoulder Surfing
				Common Network Attacks
					Malware
					DNS Poisoning
					Ransomware - Malware that prevents users from accessing their data unless they pay a ransom
					Spoofing
					Deauthentication
					Brute Force
			
	Mitigating Network Threats
		Signature Management - Keep attack signatures current on devices, such as IDS and IPS sensor
		Device Hardening - Apply a collection of best practice procedures to secure network devices.
		Change the Native VLAN
		Define Privileged User accounts
		
		File integrity monitoring - Use a service that can detect any change made to define files.
		Role Separation - Assign different sets of permissions to different categories of users, in an attempt to prevent conflict of interest.
		Honeypot Deployment - Configure a host that does not contain sensitive information and don't properly secure it.
		Penetration Testing
		Network Segmentation - Logically subdivide a network into different segments using VLANs and DMZs 
		
		Storm Control - prevents traffic on a LAN from being disrupted by a broadcast, multicast or unicast storm on a port.
		IP Source Guard - provides source IP address filtering on a Layer 2 port to prevent a malicious host from impersonating a legitimate host by assuming the legitimate host's IP address. 
		
		Defense in Depth - the use of multiple layers of security
		Zero Trust - New user will be given 0 permissions
		Least Privilege - Users are given minimum set of privileges that still allows them to perform their work.

AAA security Framework
	Authentication - Who are you?
		Multifactor Authentication
			What a user KNOWS
			What a user HAS
			What a user IS
			where a user is
			What a user DOES
		IEEE 802.X
		Network Access Control
			Posture Validatnion - Operating Sys, Anti-virus version, etc,.
		MAC Filtering
		Captive Portal
		
	Authorization - What are you allowed to do?
	Accounting - What did you do?
	
		TACACS+						RADIUS
		TCP							UDP
		Separates AAA Functions		Combines AAA Functions
		Two-Way Challenge Response	One-Way Challenge Response
		Encrypts Entire Packet		Only Encrypts Password

	Kerberos
		1. Authenticate
			Key Distribution Center(KDC)
				Contains the authentication server and ticket granting server
		2. Granted ticket
		3. File server

	Single Sign-On
		LDAP Server - IP Phones
		e-Mail Server
		File Server

C. Wireless Security
	Wireless Threats
		Discovery
			Passive Footprinting - Listening to and analyzing existing wireless traffic.
			Active Footprinting - Sending probes to APs and recieving replies
		
		MAC Address Spoofing - 'Spoof' - fake
		Rogue Access Point
		Evil Twin - have a rogue AP with an identical SSID with the victim's AP
		Deauthentication
		Session Hijacking
		Misconfigured or Weakly Configured AP
		
	Bluetooth Hacking
		2.4 GHz band
		Creates a Personal Area Network (PAN)
		Examples of Devices:
			-Mobile Phones
			-Earbuds
			-Gaming Consoles
			-Speakers
		
		Bluejacking - adding onto the victims device
		
		Bluesnarfing - gathering information
		
		BlueSmacking - DDoS
		
		BlueBugging - eavesdrop
		
		BluePrinting - scanning

	Wireless Security Goals
		Authentication
		Encryption
		
		Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP)
			IEEE 802.11
			Uses the RC4 encryption algorithm - 24bit
			Became trivial to crack
		
		Primary Modes of Key Distribution
			Pre-Shared Key (PSK) Personal Mode: Matching Keys are preconfigured on wireless clients and access points
			Enterprise Mode: Clients provide authentication credentials to an authentication server (ex. RADIUS server) which permits or denies network access and provides a session key to use during a permitted session.
				//802.1x - supplicant : authenticator relay - auth server
		
		Enhanced Encryption Protocols
			Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) - 48bits
				Improved encryption compared to WEP
			
			Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)
				Significantly stronger than TKIP but requires more resources.
		
		Enhanced Security Protocol
		
			Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA)
				Used TKIP for enhanced protection
				Upgraded security in software without requiring new hardware
				Uses a longer initialization vector (IV) 48 bits, up from 24 bits
			
			Wi-Fi Protected Access II (WPA2)
				Became a requirement for WiFi cert in 2006
				Required support for AES //doesn't mean the client has to use it.
				Required more processing power
				Susceptible to the KRACK vulnerability
			
			Wi-Fi Protected Access III (WPA3)
				Uses 192-bit AES encryption for (Enterprise Mode) - 192bit key //Only AES no TKIP
				Uses Protected Management Frames (PMFs) to prevent other devices from spoofing management frames.
				Prevents eavesdropping on public networks.
				Replaces WiFi Protected Setup (WPS) with Device Provisioning Protocol (DPP) - assisted setup
		
					CCMP is an encryption protocol based on the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) algorithm. It provides both encryption and data integrity by combining the Counter Mode (CTR) for encryption and the Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code (CBC-MAC) for data integrity.
					WPA3 (Wi-Fi Protected Access 3) and WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access 2) are the latest and most commonly used wireless security standards. Both WPA3 and WPA2 support the use of CCMP as the encryption and integrity protocol for securing wireless communications.

			
			
		Isolating Wireless Access
			Guest Network Isolation - Isolate guest network from the rest of the network
			Wireless Client Isolation - provide security and privacy to guest clients among each other
		
		MAC Filtering - only allows a device on a network with a predefined MAC Address
		
		Geofencing - Can use a mobile device's GPS location to permit or deny network access, or to grant or revoke specific network permissions
		Captive Portal - redirects uses to a network page to provide information for authentication.
	
	Wireless Hacking Countermeasures
		Don't use default SSIDs, username, or passwords
		Consider disabling SSID broadcasts
		Scan wireless network for rogue access points
		Look for the vendor codes of access point manufacturers in the MAC address table
		
		Wireless IPS
			Aruba's RFProtect Wireless IPS
			Cisco Adaptive Wireless IPS
		
D. Session Hijacking
	Active: Actively takes over a session.
	Passive: Monitor the session.
		Established Session
		
	Application Level Hijacking
		Hijack an application protocol HTTPS
		
	Network Layer Hijacking
		Intercepting packets
	
	Session Predicting
	Session Replay
	Session Fixation
	
E. Physical Security
	Physical Security: Detection
		Motion detection
		Video Surveillance
		Tamper detection
		Asset Tracking Tags
	
	Physical Security: Prevention
		Badges
		Biometrics
		Training
		Access Control Vestibule (Mantrap)
		Locks
	
	Equipment Disposal
		Erase Configuration/Factory Reset
		Sanitize Device //Break it. or DBN

F. IoT Cloud Security
	Many IoT devices were not designed with security in mind
	IoT devices might use weak encryption to preserve processing power
	Software updates might no be automatically deployed.

	ex. IoT hack
		'Mirai Malware Example' October 2016
		Botnet of infected IoT devices
		
			*Don't leave things with default password
	
	Cloud Security
		Transport Layer Security (TLS)
		VPN
		Private WAN Cloud
		
		Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB)
			Software that sits between users and cloud resources
			Monitors traffic to enforce security policies
			Generate alerts if any malicious activity is detected.
	
E. Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)
	Remote Access
		Allows client to connect to any internet connection
		Securely use a web browser (Clientless Cisco SSL VPN)
		Install a software client (Cisco AnyConnect SSL VPN)
		
		SSL - Secure Sockets Layer - an encryption based internet security protocol. 
	
	Site-to-Site VPNs 
		Can use common broadband technologies.
		Transparent to the client devices
			can use routers or dedicated VPN concentrators
			
		VPN Protocols
			Generic Routing Encapsulation (Generic Routing Encapsulation)
				GRE Tunnel
					Can Encapsulate nearly any data type //unicast, multicast, broadcase
					Does not provide security //no security
					
				IP Security (IPsec)
					Provides
						Confidentiality: Encryption
						Integrity: Hashing
						Authentication: PSKs or Digital Signatures
						Anti-replay: Applies Serial Numbers to Packets
						
						Can encapsulate unicast IP packets //Not Flexible
					
					Two modes: 
						Transport Mode: Uses Packet's original header //less overhead, less security
						Tunnel Mode: Encapsulate entire packet //secure but more overhead
						
					Authentication and Encryption
						Authentication Header (AH) - Authenticates the entire IP packet, including the outer IP header, but does not do encryption
						Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) - Can authenticate an IP packet (not including the IP header) and can perform encryption.
					
					Setup Steps
						Step #1: Establish an Internet Key Exchange (IKE) Phase 1 tunnel (Internet Security Associaition and Key Management Protocol ISAKMP tunnel) //setup a tunnel just to negotiate parameters for IKE Phase 2 tunnel
						Step #2: Establish IKE Phase 2 tunnel //actual IPsec tunnel
						
				GRE + IPsec Tunnel
					Encapsulate data (multicast, unicast, etc) on a GRE Packet (Unicast)
					Then, protect the GRE packet through IPSec tunnel.
				
	
				https://kwtrain.com/vpn-demos - GRE over IPSec demos
	
		Dynamic Multipoint Virtual Private Network (DMVPN)
			//'Dynamically Bring it up when needed then take it down when we don't need it'
		
			Multipoint GRE (mGRE): Allows a single interface to support multiple GRE tunnels
			Next Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP)
				help private IPs from different branch connect to another branch
				
					NHRP Query
					