AI for Networking 
Ref: https://youtu.be/AJshu0gZKdw?si=30lBbJCKGOGy4DNa

Artificial Intelligence - a broad term encompassing many underlying technologies that allow a system to stimulate human intelligence.

	Machine Learning - A subset of AI that can train a model with training data, and once trained, analyze and make predictions about new data.
		Supervised Learning - A type of ML that can be trained on labeled data and then classify new data.
			ex. Email - Spam & Not Spam
			
		Unsupervised Learning - A type of ML that can be trained on unlabeled data to see if the data naturally fall into groups and then assign new data to groups.
			ex. Raw Data - Manually allow the AI to identify groups.
		
		Deep Learning - A subnet of ML that uses artificial neural networks that can use both Supervised and unsupervised learning, which is called semi-supervised learning.
			Neural Networks:
				Input Layer
					Weighted Value
					//Weighted Link for neurons to provide priority.
				Hidden Layer
					Bias Value
					//Activation Function
				Output Layer
				
				
				Input	Hidden		Output
				x1 -\
				
				x2 -X	
				
				x3 -/
				
				->Forward Propagation - after calculation = results predict value
				
				predict value - compared to loss function
				
				<- backwards propagation
				
					//repeat until predict value matches the loss function
	
	Predictive AI - predict what happens next.
		Forecast Network issues.
		
	Generative AI - generate something origincal after feeding it references.
		Provide assistance in creating network design.
		

Main Benefits
	Network Design
	Network Troubleshooting
	Detecting malicious traffic
	Predicting Network issues before they occur
		

		
Cisco AI Applications
Cisco Catalyst Center (Formerly Cisco DNA Center): uses AI to analyze network performance and identify potential issues before they arise.
Cisco Nexus Dashboard and Cisco Nexus Dashboard Insights: Uses AI to correlate system faults and events with configuration changes.
Cisco Meraki: Uses AI to provide real-time threat detection
Cisco AppDynamics: Creates dynamic baseline information based on time of day or time of year to better detect anomalies.

----
Ansible
	
Configuration Drift is when individual changes made over time cause a device's config to deviate from the standard.
Configuration Provisioning - refers to how configuration changes are applied to devices
Configuration Management Tools

Ansible 
	communication protocol SSH
	Key port 22 SSH
	owned by Red Hat
	written in Python
	Agentless doesn't required any special software to run on managed devices
	Push model - ansible server (control node) uses SSH to connect to managed devices and push configurations to them.
		Playbooks: these files are blueprints of automation tasks. outline the logic and actions of the tasks that ansible should do. Written in YAML
		Inventory: files list the devices that will be managed by Ansible such as Access Switch, Core Switch, WAN Router, Firewall, etc,. Written in INI, YAML, or other formats
		Templates: files represent a device's config without specific values. Written in Jinja2 format.
		Variables: list variables and their values. written in YAML  