APIs
Application Programming Interface - a software interface that allows two apps to communicate with each other.
NBI Typically uses REST APIs
NETCONF and RESTCONF are popular SBI APIs

CRUD - Create Read Update Delete

-Create : new variables and set their values
-Read : are used to retrieve the value of a variable
-Update : used to change the value of a variable
-Delete : used to delete variables

HTTP uses verbs that map to these CRUD operations.
REST APIs 

Create 	=	POST
Read 	= 	GET
Update 	=	PUT,PATCH
Delete 	=	DELETE

https:	//sandboxdnac.cisco.com 	/dna/intent/api
scheme	authority					path

Http Request
IP Header	TCP Header	Verb	URI		Add Header		Data

Response
1xx Request - request was recieved, continuing process
	informational
	102 processing
	
2xx Successful - request was successfully recieved, understood, and accepted
	200 ok request succeded
	201 created succeded and a new resource was created
	
3xx redirection - further action is needed
	301 moved permanently, the requested resource has been moved and the server indicates its new location

4xx client error
	403 unauthorized, means the client must authenticate to get a response
	404 no found
	
5xx server error
	500 internal server error
	

REST - Representational State Transfer.
-Uniform Interface
	All resources should be accessible through a common approach such as HTTP GET and similarly modified using a consistent approach.
	
-Client-Server
	client and server are independent of one another
	when the client and server application changes, the interface between them must not break.
	
-Stateless
	Each API exchange is a separate event, independent of all past exchanges between server and client
-Cacheable or non
	must support caching of data.
	
-Layered System
	REST allows you to use a layered system architecture where you deploy the APIs on server A, and store data on server B and authenticate requests in Server C, for example. A client cannot ordinarily tell whether it is connected directly to the end server or an intermediary along the way.
	
-Code-on -Demand
	you and many others can access codes on demand
	Most of the time, you will be sending the static representations of resources in the form of XML or JSON. But when you need to, you are free to return executable code to support a part of your application, e.g., clients may call your API to get a UI widget rendering code. It is permitted
	

https://restfulapi.net/rest-architectural-constraints/

--
	SDN Architecture
		Application Layer - contains scripts/applications that tell the SDN controller what network behaviors are desired
		Control Layer - contains the SDN controller that receives and process instructions from application
		Infrastructure Layer - contains the network devices that are responsible for forwarding messages across the network.
	
	SD Access - solution for automating campus LANs
	Underlay - underlying physical network of devices and connections which provide IP connectivity
		//Running Dynamic Protocols IS IS
	Overlay - is the virtual network built on top of the physical underlay of the network
		//VXLan Tunnel
	fabric is the combination of the overlay and underlay