Ref: https://youtu.be/VvFuieyTTSw?si=oFWJOWAewYeylccc

Security Fundamentals

CIA Triad
Confidentiality
Integrity - data should be correct and authentic. data should not be tampered with
Availability - systems should be operational and accessible to authorized users.

Vulnerability - potential weakness can compromise CIA system
Exploit - something that can potentially be used to exploit the vulnerability.
Threat - the potential of a vulnerability to be exploited.
Mitigation - protect against threats.

No system is perfectly secure

Common Attacks
	Denial-of-Service attacks - threatens the availability of a system.
		-TCP SYN Flood
			the attacker sends countless TCP SYN message to the target
			attacker never replies with the final ACK
			Attacker continues sending SYN Messages
			Target is no longer able to make legitimate TCP connections
		
		Distributed Denial-of-Service Attack
			infect PCs with Malware - infected computers is called a botnet.

	Spoofing Attacks
		-DHCP Exhaution
			-spoof MAC address sent to FLOOD dhcp Discover Messages.
			-DHCP Pool then gets full and no more IP can be distributed.
	
	Reflection/Amplification attacks
		Attcker sends traffic to a reflector // Src xxxx Des 69 | Src 69 Des xxxx //Just like how servers reply to clients
			Reflector ex. DNS Server, NTP Server
			
			Causes A denial of Service
	
	Man in the Middle
		Attacker eavesdrop on a connection
		
		ARP Spoofing/ARP Poisoning
		
		Compromises the Confidentiality and Integrity
	
	Reconnaissance attacks
		nslookup
	
	Malware
		Virus affectting software. Corrupting/modifying
		Worms standalone malware tha is able to spead on thier own without user interaction. Can congest networks or cause harm to devices.
	
	Trojan Horses
		Harmful software disguised as legit software.
	
Social Engineering Attacks
	Phishing - fraud emails
	Vishing - Voice Phishing
	Smishing - SMS Phishing
	
	Watering Hole - attackers compromises sites that the target victim freqently visits.
	
	Tailgating
	

Multifactor Auth
	Somthing you know - PIN
	Something you have - press a notif on your Phone
	Something you are - face scan, biometrics
	
	Digital Certificates

Security Program Elements
	User Awareness
	User Training - training session
	Physical Access Control - limit access 
	

Port Security---

