Ref: https://youtu.be/HXu0Ifj0oWU?si=cFxgj8bhXYyg-1ro
SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol)

SNMP uses UDP 161, 162

Device Types
1. Managed Devices
	-these are the devices being managed using SNMP
	-ex. Network devices like routers and switches

2. Network Management Station (NMS)
	-the device/devices managing the managed devices
	-this is the SNMP/NMS 'server'

SNMP Operations
	Three main operations used in SNMP
	 1. Managed devices can notify the NMS of events.
	 2. NMS can ask managed devices for info about their current status.
	 3. NMS can tell managed devices to change aspects of their configuration.
	 
	 SNMP Manager - NMS(SRV1) -> Managed Devices [R1,R2]
	 SNMP Manager - software on the NMS that interacts with the manged devices.
		-recieves, sends requests, sends config changes, etc,.
	
	 SNMP Application - provides an interface for the net admin to interact with.
		-display alerts, stats, charts, etc,.
		
	 SNMP Agent - is the SNMP software running on the managed devices that interacts with the SNMP Manager on the NMS
	 Management Information Base (MIB) - the structure that contains the variables that are managed by SNMP.
		-each variable is identified with Object ID
	
SNMP Object ID
	ex.
		.1.3.6.1.2.1.1.5
		

	SNMPv1
	 -original SNMP ver
	
	SNMPv2c
	 -allows the NMS to retrieve large amounts of info in a single request
	 -c refers to the community string. Pass
	
	SNMPv3
	 -a much more secure version of SNMP that supports strong encryption and authentication.
	
	SNMP Messages
		Read - read info from managed devices
			Get, request agent to retrieve the value of a variable OID.
			GetNext, request to discover the available variables in the MIB.
			GetBulk - more efficient version of the GetNext message.
		Write - change information on the managed devices
			Set - ex. change ip add,
			//agent will send a response message after each Read/Write messages
		Notification - alert the NMS of events (int going down) : sent by the client/managed devices
			Trap - manager does not send a response message to ack the recieved trap.
			Inform - a message type that is ack with a response.
		Response - responses of the SNMP manager to the agent.

	//
	snmp-server contact aerin@james.com
	snmp-server location
	
	snmp-server community pass1 ro //pass1 is the password and ro is read only. users using the password will only read only.
	snmp-server community pass2 rw //read write
	
	snmp-server host 192.168.1.1 version 2c pass1 //specify the NMS, version, and community pass
	
	snmp-server ena traps snmp linkdown linkup
	snmp-server ena traps config 
	
	 
	